---
description: This guide explains how to issue a ticket.
---

# 5. Issue Ticket

Most airlines only allow specially-licensed agents to issue tickets on their behalf. To issue a ticket, you must either contract with a host agency \(typically an airline consolidator\) to issue tickets for you or seek accreditation to issue the tickets yourself. Below, we’ll go over these **two main options** for issuing tickets:

### A. Issue tickets through an airline consolidator

Issuing tickets through an airline consolidator is the easiest way for small companies and travel newcomers to begin performing flight bookings. In this option, an airline consolidator serves as an accredited host agency and issues tickets on your behalf for a fee. 

#### **What is an airline consolidator?**

Airline consolidators are essentially flight ticket wholesalers that work directly with the airlines. They can issue tickets and often serve as hosts for travel agencies that are not accredited to issue tickets themselves.

Aside from issuing tickets, consolidators also usually offer post-ticketing services such as refunds or flight monitoring to detect schedule changes and cancellations.

Many start-ups and online travel companies prefer to issue tickets through an airline consolidator rather than seek accreditation. To do this, you must sign a contract with the consolidators in your desired markets. 

#### **What is the right airline consolidator for you?**

There are many airline consolidators throughout the world and finding the right one depends largely on your needs and location. [Contact us here](https://developers.amadeus.com/support/contact-us-self-service) and we will help you find the one that’s best for you.

### B. Get accredited to issue tickets yourself

To be able to issue tickets yourself, you must first become an accredited agent. This lets you issue tickets and avoid the fees charged by airline consolidators, though you may still wish to contract a consolidator for post-ticketing services.

Various airline associations provide accreditation to travel agencies. This accreditation lets you issue tickets on behalf the associated carriers and access the payment settlement services which must be used to pay the airlines. The two major accrediting organizations are:

* **International Air Transport Association \(IATA\)** – IATA is an association of 290 international airlines which, among other functions, provides booking and ticketing accreditation to travel agencies and provides payment settlement services through the Billing and Settlement Plan \(BSP\). Companies registered outside of the U.S. must have IATA accreditation to issue tickets and access the BSP. You can find more information on requirements and how to apply for accreditation on the [IATA website](https://www.iata.org/services/accreditation/accreditation-travel/Pages/application.aspx). 
* **Airlines Reporting Corporation \(ARC\)** – The ARC is company owned by various North American airlines that provides payment settlement services between airlines and retailers in the U.S. Travel agencies registered in the U.S. must have ARC accreditation to book, issue and fulfil flight tickets directly. Information on eligibility, requirements applying for ARC accreditation can be found on the [ARC website](https://www2.arccorp.com/products-participation/travel-agencies/become-an-arc-accredited-agent/).

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Note: local regulations may apply**

In some areas like California or France, managing flight bookings is subject to local regulations. If you’re unsure about what your local regulations are,
{% endhint %}

