docs/programming/index.md, before:

# Amadeus SDKs Tutorials

We have a number of SDKs available to help you integrate Amadeus Self-Service APIs into your applications. To give more context to how each of the SDKs can be used, we also have a dedicated tutorial per programming language.

| **SDK source files**      | **SDK tutorial** | **Support** |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| [Amadeus Node SDK](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-node)| [Amadeus Node SDK tutorial](node.md) | `Official SDK` |
| [Amadeus Python SDK](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-python)| [Amadeus Python SDK tutorial](python.md) | `Official SDK`|
| [Amadeus Java SDK](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-node)| [Amadeus Java SDK tutorial](java.md) | `Official SDK` |
| [Amadeus PHP SDK](https://github.com/amadeus4dev-examples/amadeus-php)| [Amadeus PHP SDK tutorial](php.md) | `Community Based SDK` |

If you need an SDK in a different language, feel free to use the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) to automatically create an SDK from our [OpenAPI Specification files](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-open-api-specification). We also have a [tutorial](openapi-generator.md) on how to do this.

Commit message:

Added {:target="\_blank"} to external links

docs/programming/index.md, after:

# Amadeus SDKs Tutorials

We have a number of SDKs available to help you integrate Amadeus Self-Service APIs into your applications. To give more context to how each of the SDKs can be used, we also have a dedicated tutorial per programming language.

| **SDK source files**      | **SDK tutorial** | **Support** |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| [Amadeus Node SDK](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-node){:target="\_blank"}| [Amadeus Node SDK tutorial](node.md) | `Official SDK` |
| [Amadeus Python SDK](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-python){:target="\_blank"}| [Amadeus Python SDK tutorial](python.md) | `Official SDK`|
| [Amadeus Java SDK](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-node){:target="\_blank"}| [Amadeus Java SDK tutorial](java.md) | `Official SDK` |
| [Amadeus PHP SDK](https://github.com/amadeus4dev-examples/amadeus-php){:target="\_blank"}| [Amadeus PHP SDK tutorial](php.md) | `Community Based SDK` |

If you need an SDK in a different language, feel free to use the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/){:target="\_blank"} to automatically create an SDK from our [OpenAPI Specification files](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-open-api-specification){:target="\_blank"}. We also have a [tutorial](openapi-generator.md) on how to do this.
