docs/index.md, before:

# Amadeus for Developers docs

Welcome to the **Amadeus for Developers** docs portal! 

Our main focus here is on the [Self-Service APIs](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service){:target="\_blank"}. If you need any information on the [Enterprise APIs](https://developers.amadeus.com/enterprise){:target="\_blank"}, please reach out to our [customer support team](https://developers.amadeus.com/support/contact-us-enterprise){:target="\_blank"} and we'll be happy to assist you further.

## What are the Self-Service APIs?

Target independent developers and start-ups that wish to connect to Amadeus APIs in a quick and easy manner. You can access and start to test these new REST/JSON APIs in less than 3 minutes, and get quick access to production data with a flexible pay-as-you-go pricing model. Please note that the catalog includes some selected APIs, although we will be constantly releasing new APIs. Currently, you can find APIs around flights, destination Experiences, cars & transfers, market insights, hotels, and itinerary management.

Self-Service users have at their disposal detailed documentation, guides, and SDKs to be able to integrate the APIs in their apps. 

## What are the Enterprise APIs?

Provide access to the full Amadeus APIs catalog, tailored to companies with scale needs and leading brands in the travel industry. Customers of Enterprise APIs receive dedicated support from their account managers and enjoy a customized pricing scheme to meet their needs. Please note that access to Enterprise APIs is only granted on a request basis, and some special requirements may apply.

!!! warning
    You can potentially use APIs from both catalogs, but please keep in mind that the requirements and conditions of each offer are very different!

## Discover the Amadeus Self-Service APIs

Amadeus for Developers provides a set of Self-Service APIs, which were implemented using the API-first approach. We produce an [API specification in the OpenAPI format](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-open-api-specification){:target="\_blank"} before any implementation.

!!! information
    The OpenAPI Specification (OAS) defines a standard, programming language-agnostic interface description for HTTP APIs, which allows both humans and computers to discover and understand the capabilities of a service without requiring access to source code, additional documentation, or inspection of network traffic.

* To see all Amadeus Self-Service APIs in one place, check out our [API catalogue](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service){:target="\_blank"}.
* Don’t forget to stop by our [GitHub workspace](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/){:target="\_blank"} where you can find tons of samples and prototypes to get inspiration, as well as the latest versions of the SDKs in multiple programming languages.
* If you are a happy Postman user, as we are, feel free to use the [Amadeus for Developers Postman collection](https://www.postman.com/amadeus4dev/workspace/amadeus-for-developers-s-public-workspace/documentation/2672636-27471449-d2ca-a8c4-1399-6b0cfbddd079){:target="\_blank"}.


!!! important
    Something not clear? Typos? We would be happy to receive your pull requests and feedback to this documentation guides. Feel free to contribute!

Happy coding!

_The **Amadeus for Developers** Team_

Commit message:

Add SEO tags to .md files (#272)
* Add title tag and meta description to index.md

* Add title tag to quick-start.md

* Update title tag to pricing.md

* Add title tag to pricing.md

* Add title tag to test-data.md

* Add title tag to API-Keys/index.md

* Add title tag to API-Keys/ authorization.md

* Add title tag to API-Keys/moving-to-production.md

* Add title tag to api-rate-limits.md

* Add title tag to pagination.md

* Add title tag to common-errors.md

* Add title tag to resources/index.md

* Add title tag to resources/flights.md

* Add title tag to resources/hotels.md

* Add title tag to resources/destination-experiences.md

* Add title tag to resources/market-insight.md

* Add title tag to resources/cars-transfers.md

* Add title tag to resources/itinerary-managment.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/index.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/node.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/python.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/java.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/php.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/openapi-generator.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/postman.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/mock-server.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/graphql/index.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/graphql/rest-to-graphql-node.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/graphql/rest-to-graphql-python.md

* Add title tag to developer-tools/graphql/rest-to-graphql-export.md

* Add title tag to examples/index.md

* Add title tag to examples/code-example.md

* Add title tag to examples/live-examples.md

* Add title tag to examples/prototypes.md

* Add title tag to faq.md

* Add title tag to migration-guides/index.md

* Add title tag to migration-guides/hotel-search.md

* Add title tag to migration-guides/hotel-booking.md

* Add title tag to API-Keys/index.md

docs/index.md, after:

---
title: API Guides
description: Learn how to build new travel apps with Amadeus for Developers Self-Service APIs Guides, designed to simplify and accelerate your workflow.
---

# Amadeus for Developers docs

Welcome to the **Amadeus for Developers** docs portal! 

Our main focus here is on the [Self-Service APIs](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service){:target="\_blank"}. If you need any information on the [Enterprise APIs](https://developers.amadeus.com/enterprise){:target="\_blank"}, please reach out to our [customer support team](https://developers.amadeus.com/support/contact-us-enterprise){:target="\_blank"} and we'll be happy to assist you further.

## What are the Self-Service APIs?

Target independent developers and start-ups that wish to connect to Amadeus APIs in a quick and easy manner. You can access and start to test these new REST/JSON APIs in less than 3 minutes, and get quick access to production data with a flexible pay-as-you-go pricing model. Please note that the catalog includes some selected APIs, although we will be constantly releasing new APIs. Currently, you can find APIs around flights, destination Experiences, cars & transfers, market insights, hotels, and itinerary management.

Self-Service users have at their disposal detailed documentation, guides, and SDKs to be able to integrate the APIs in their apps. 

## What are the Enterprise APIs?

Provide access to the full Amadeus APIs catalog, tailored to companies with scale needs and leading brands in the travel industry. Customers of Enterprise APIs receive dedicated support from their account managers and enjoy a customized pricing scheme to meet their needs. Please note that access to Enterprise APIs is only granted on a request basis, and some special requirements may apply.

!!! warning
    You can potentially use APIs from both catalogs, but please keep in mind that the requirements and conditions of each offer are very different!

## Discover the Amadeus Self-Service APIs

Amadeus for Developers provides a set of Self-Service APIs, which were implemented using the API-first approach. We produce an [API specification in the OpenAPI format](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/amadeus-open-api-specification){:target="\_blank"} before any implementation.

!!! information
    The OpenAPI Specification (OAS) defines a standard, programming language-agnostic interface description for HTTP APIs, which allows both humans and computers to discover and understand the capabilities of a service without requiring access to source code, additional documentation, or inspection of network traffic.

* To see all Amadeus Self-Service APIs in one place, check out our [API catalogue](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service){:target="\_blank"}.
* Don’t forget to stop by our [GitHub workspace](https://github.com/amadeus4dev/){:target="\_blank"} where you can find tons of samples and prototypes to get inspiration, as well as the latest versions of the SDKs in multiple programming languages.
* If you are a happy Postman user, as we are, feel free to use the [Amadeus for Developers Postman collection](https://www.postman.com/amadeus4dev/workspace/amadeus-for-developers-s-public-workspace/documentation/2672636-27471449-d2ca-a8c4-1399-6b0cfbddd079){:target="\_blank"}.


!!! important
    Something not clear? Typos? We would be happy to receive your pull requests and feedback to this documentation guides. Feel free to contribute!

Happy coding!

_The **Amadeus for Developers** Team_
