docs/resources/market-insight.md, before:

# Market insights

With Amadeus Self-Service APIs, you can get insights from millions of bookings and our technology partners.  In the **Market insights** category, we have four APIs available.

!!! information
    Our catalogue of [Self-Service APIs](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service) is currently organised by categories that are different to what you see on this page.

| APIs                                                                                                                                                          | Description                                                                             |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Flight Most Traveled Destinations](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-most-traveled-destinations/api-reference) | See the top destinations by passenger volume for a given city and month.                |
| [Flight Most Booked Destinations](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-most-booked-destinations/api-reference)           | See the top destinations by booking volume for a given city and month.                  |
| [Flight Busiest Traveling Period](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-busiest-traveling-period/api-reference)        | See monthly air traffic levels by city to understand season trends.                     |
| [Location Score](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/destination-content/api-doc/location-score/api-reference)                               | Assess a neighborhood’s popularity for sightseeing, shopping, eating out, or nightlife. |


## Find the top destinations or the busiest period for a given city

You may wonder which destination the travelers travel to the most and when is the busiest period for a given city. You can get the travel insight from a given city and month with the following three endpoints.

!!! information
    - The results of these three endpoints are based on estimated flight traffic summary data from the past 12 months. 
    - Flight traffic summary data is based on bookings made over Amadeus systems.

### The top destinations by passenger volume 

[Flight Most Traveled Destinations  API](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-most-traveled-destinations/api-reference) returns the most visited destinations from a given city. 

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/traveled?originCityCode=NCE&period=2018-01
```

### The top destinations by booking volume 

[Flight Most Booked Destinations API](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-most-booked-destinations/api-reference) returns the most booked destinations from a given city. 

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/booked?originCityCode=NCE&period=2018-01
```

### The busiest month/period by air traffic 

[Flight Busiest Traveling Period  API](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-busiest-traveling-period/api-reference) returns the peak periods for travel to/from a specific city. 

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/busiest-period?cityCode=NCE&period=2018
```

### Response 

The three endpoints have the same response structure.

Response to the top destinations from a given city : 

```json
{
    "meta": {
        "count": 8,
        "links": {
            "self": "https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/booked?originCityCode=NCE&page%5Blimit%5D=10&page%5Boffset%5D=0&period=2018-01&sort=analytics.travelers.score"
        }
    },
    "data": [
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "destination": "PAR",
            "subType": "BOOKED",
            "analytics": {
                "flights": {
                    "score": 100
                },
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 100
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "destination": "MAD",
            "subType": "BOOKED",
            "analytics": {
                "flights": {
                    "score": 10
                },
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 8
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

Response to the busines period from a given city : 

```json
{
    "meta": {
        "count": 3,
        "links": {
            "self": "https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/busiest-period?cityCode=PAR&direction=ARRIVING&period=2018"
        }
    },
    "data": [
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "period": "2018-03",
            "analytics": {
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 34
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "period": "2018-02",
            "analytics": {
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 33
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "period": "2018-01",
            "analytics": {
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 33
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

- `subType` is `BOOKED` or `TRAVELED`, depending on the endpoint. 
- In `analytics`, the `score` in `flight` is flights to this destination as a percentage of total departures, and the `score` in `traveler` is the number of passengers traveling to the destination as a percentage of total passenger departures.


### Sorting

Sorting is enabled on the "top destinations" endpoints. 

- analytics.flights.score - sort destination by flights score (decreasing)
- analytics.travelers.score - sort destination by traveler's score (decreasing)

For example : 

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/traveled?originCityCode=NCE&period=2018-01&sort=analytics.travelers.score
```

### Direction 

For the Flight Busiest Traveling Period insight, you can specify the direction as:

- `ARRIVING` for statistics on travelers arriving in the city
- `DEPARTING` for statistics on travelers leaving the city

By default, statistics are given on travelers ARRIVING in the city.

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/busiest-period?cityCode=PAR&period=2018&direction=ARRIVING
```

## Find insight within a given city

Apart from the top destinations and busiest period insight in a city, you can also help users gain insights into a neighborhood, hotel, or vacation rental with the [Location Score API](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/destination-content/api-doc/location-score/api-reference). 

For a given latitude and longitude, it provides popularity scores for the following leisure and tourism categories:

- Sightseeing
- Restaurants
- Shopping
- Nightlife

For each category, the API provides an overall popularity score as well as scores for select subcategories, 
such as luxury shopping, vegetarian restaurants, or historical sights. Location scores are on 
a simple 0-100 scale and are powered by the [AVUXI TopPlace](https://www.avuxi.com/topplace/location-scores) algorithm, which analyzes millions of online reviews, comments, and points of interest.

!!! Notes
    - For each location, the API will return scores for a 200m., 500m., and 1500m. radius. 
    - Scores indicate positive traveler sentiments and may not reflect the most visited locations.

**Request:**

```
curl https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/location/analytics/category-rated-areas?latitude=41.397158&longitude=2.160873
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "type": "category-rated-area",
      "geoCode": {
        "latitude": 41.397158,
        "longitude": 2.160873
      },
      "radius": 200,
      "categoryScores": {
        "sight": {
          "overall": 87,
          "historical": 83,
          "beachAndPark": 0
        },
        "restaurant": {
          "overall": 92,
          "vegetarian": 61
        },
        "shopping": {
          "overall": 96,
          "luxury": 96
        },
        "nightLife": {
          "overall": 86
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "category-rated-area",
      "geoCode": {
        "latitude": 41.397158,
        "longitude": 2.160873
      },
      "radius": 500,
      "categoryScores": {
        "sight": {
          "overall": 99,
          "historical": 69,
          "beachAndPark": 0
        },
        "restaurant": {
          "overall": 94,
          "vegetarian": 71
        },
        "shopping": {
          "overall": 99,
          "luxury": 99
        },
        "nightLife": {
          "overall": 88
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    "count": 3,
    "links": {
      "self": "https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/location/analytics/category-rated-areas?latitude=41.397158&longitude=2.160873"
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Added {:target="\_blank"} to external links

docs/resources/market-insight.md, after:

# Market insights

With Amadeus Self-Service APIs, you can get insights from millions of bookings and our technology partners.  In the **Market insights** category, we have four APIs available.

!!! information
    Our catalogue of [Self-Service APIs](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service){:target="\_blank"} is currently organised by categories that are different to what you see on this page.

| APIs                                                                                                                                                          | Description                                                                             |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Flight Most Traveled Destinations](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-most-traveled-destinations/api-reference){:target="\_blank"} | See the top destinations by passenger volume for a given city and month.                |
| [Flight Most Booked Destinations](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-most-booked-destinations/api-reference){:target="\_blank"}           | See the top destinations by booking volume for a given city and month.                  |
| [Flight Busiest Traveling Period](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-busiest-traveling-period/api-reference){:target="\_blank"}        | See monthly air traffic levels by city to understand season trends.                     |
| [Location Score](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/destination-content/api-doc/location-score/api-reference){:target="\_blank"}                               | Assess a neighborhood’s popularity for sightseeing, shopping, eating out, or nightlife. |


## Find the top destinations or the busiest period for a given city

You may wonder which destination the travelers travel to the most and when is the busiest period for a given city. You can get the travel insight from a given city and month with the following three endpoints.

!!! information
    - The results of these three endpoints are based on estimated flight traffic summary data from the past 12 months. 
    - Flight traffic summary data is based on bookings made over Amadeus systems.

### The top destinations by passenger volume 

[Flight Most Traveled Destinations  API](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-most-traveled-destinations/api-reference){:target="\_blank"} returns the most visited destinations from a given city. 

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/traveled?originCityCode=NCE&period=2018-01
```

### The top destinations by booking volume 

[Flight Most Booked Destinations API](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-most-booked-destinations/api-reference){:target="\_blank"} returns the most booked destinations from a given city. 

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/booked?originCityCode=NCE&period=2018-01
```

### The busiest month/period by air traffic 

[Flight Busiest Traveling Period  API](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/air/api-doc/flight-busiest-traveling-period/api-reference){:target="\_blank"} returns the peak periods for travel to/from a specific city. 

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/busiest-period?cityCode=NCE&period=2018
```

### Response 

The three endpoints have the same response structure.

Response to the top destinations from a given city : 

```json
{
    "meta": {
        "count": 8,
        "links": {
            "self": "https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/booked?originCityCode=NCE&page%5Blimit%5D=10&page%5Boffset%5D=0&period=2018-01&sort=analytics.travelers.score"
        }
    },
    "data": [
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "destination": "PAR",
            "subType": "BOOKED",
            "analytics": {
                "flights": {
                    "score": 100
                },
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 100
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "destination": "MAD",
            "subType": "BOOKED",
            "analytics": {
                "flights": {
                    "score": 10
                },
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 8
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

Response to the busines period from a given city : 

```json
{
    "meta": {
        "count": 3,
        "links": {
            "self": "https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/busiest-period?cityCode=PAR&direction=ARRIVING&period=2018"
        }
    },
    "data": [
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "period": "2018-03",
            "analytics": {
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 34
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "period": "2018-02",
            "analytics": {
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 33
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "air-traffic",
            "period": "2018-01",
            "analytics": {
                "travelers": {
                    "score": 33
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

- `subType` is `BOOKED` or `TRAVELED`, depending on the endpoint. 
- In `analytics`, the `score` in `flight` is flights to this destination as a percentage of total departures, and the `score` in `traveler` is the number of passengers traveling to the destination as a percentage of total passenger departures.


### Sorting

Sorting is enabled on the "top destinations" endpoints. 

- analytics.flights.score - sort destination by flights score (decreasing)
- analytics.travelers.score - sort destination by traveler's score (decreasing)

For example : 

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/traveled?originCityCode=NCE&period=2018-01&sort=analytics.travelers.score
```

### Direction 

For the Flight Busiest Traveling Period insight, you can specify the direction as:

- `ARRIVING` for statistics on travelers arriving in the city
- `DEPARTING` for statistics on travelers leaving the city

By default, statistics are given on travelers ARRIVING in the city.

```bash
GET https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/travel/analytics/air-traffic/busiest-period?cityCode=PAR&period=2018&direction=ARRIVING
```

## Find insight within a given city

Apart from the top destinations and busiest period insight in a city, you can also help users gain insights into a neighborhood, hotel, or vacation rental with the [Location Score API](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/destination-content/api-doc/location-score/api-reference){:target="\_blank"}. 

For a given latitude and longitude, it provides popularity scores for the following leisure and tourism categories:

- Sightseeing
- Restaurants
- Shopping
- Nightlife

For each category, the API provides an overall popularity score as well as scores for select subcategories, 
such as luxury shopping, vegetarian restaurants, or historical sights. Location scores are on 
a simple 0-100 scale and are powered by the [AVUXI TopPlace](https://www.avuxi.com/topplace/location-scores){:target="\_blank"} algorithm, which analyzes millions of online reviews, comments, and points of interest.

!!! Notes
    - For each location, the API will return scores for a 200m., 500m., and 1500m. radius. 
    - Scores indicate positive traveler sentiments and may not reflect the most visited locations.

**Request:**

```
curl https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/location/analytics/category-rated-areas?latitude=41.397158&longitude=2.160873
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "type": "category-rated-area",
      "geoCode": {
        "latitude": 41.397158,
        "longitude": 2.160873
      },
      "radius": 200,
      "categoryScores": {
        "sight": {
          "overall": 87,
          "historical": 83,
          "beachAndPark": 0
        },
        "restaurant": {
          "overall": 92,
          "vegetarian": 61
        },
        "shopping": {
          "overall": 96,
          "luxury": 96
        },
        "nightLife": {
          "overall": 86
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "category-rated-area",
      "geoCode": {
        "latitude": 41.397158,
        "longitude": 2.160873
      },
      "radius": 500,
      "categoryScores": {
        "sight": {
          "overall": 99,
          "historical": 69,
          "beachAndPark": 0
        },
        "restaurant": {
          "overall": 94,
          "vegetarian": 71
        },
        "shopping": {
          "overall": 99,
          "luxury": 99
        },
        "nightLife": {
          "overall": 88
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    "count": 3,
    "links": {
      "self": "https://test.api.amadeus.com/v1/location/analytics/category-rated-areas?latitude=41.397158&longitude=2.160873"
    }
  }
}
```
